A lot of my friends recently shared the recent Cass Sunstein article “Five Books To Change Liberals’ Minds”. I found the article quite a depressing read.

A representative quote from the article is:

"Economists love to draw attention to the unintended consequences of apparently public-spirited reforms. For example, big increases in the minimum wage can increase unemployment, and expensive environmental controls imposed on new cars might actually increase environmental harm, by increasing the prices of cleaner vehicles and thus decreasing fleet turnover.”

...I don't want to be in a political movement where those things are counterintuitive. I certainly don't consider them counterintuitive myself.

The books listed seem to be trying to make a few different points:

Point 1: Complex, centrally planned regulations are heavy-handed and costly (books 1, 2, and 3).
Point 2: Without regulation, sometimes things go better than you might expect (book 5).
Point 3: Conservatives might have some different moral intuitions to liberals, so when they have weird ideas maybe it's because of that rather than them being factually wrong about things (The Righteous Mind, which was book 4).

I totally agree with point 1, way more than most liberals do. Point 2 seems maybe plausible in cases without gigantic externalities, and point 3 seems pretty plausible. (Point 3 honestly makes me feel less inclined to conservatism. If conservatives shared my values, I'd have to take their policy prescriptions more seriously. As it is, if conservatives support a policy, there's no particular reason for me to take that as evidence that the policy is good for my values.) But I still don't feel inclined in the slightest to conservatism.

Liberals are over-enthusiastic about moronic feel-good policies whose downsides they don't consider, obviously. I am tenatively opposed to all kinds of liberal regulations, like minimum wages and rent control and affordable housing regulations. Liberal labor regulations probably increase unemployment and make life much harder for many of the poorest Americans. And even in the cases when I agree with liberal regulations, I had to be convinced away from my prior that an arbitrary regulation is bad.

I have one strong agreement with liberals, which is that I'm quite enthusiastic about income redistribution. I cautiously endorse the belief that utility varies with log income. This means that I am tempted to evaluate policy by just considering its percentage effects on incomes of different groups. (Where did the percentage thing come from? That is because multiplying someone's income by x increases their utility by log(x), regardless of their original income. So increasing their income by a flat amount of money increases utility much more for people with lower income.) So I care less about efficiency of tax systems for the rich than I think many people do.

But overall, I still don't end up feeling that enthusiastic about conservatives or libertarians.

Liberals are enthusiastic about combating climate change, which is a super important case of giant externalities that conservatives and libertarians both seem to not care much about. Conservatives are opposed to immigration; I am naively inclined to disagree with them. Obviously I disagree with conservatives on many social issues. I

